So now that we got our DV in order,
what we wanna do now start working on the
routes that we wanna create for the app.
So for this app it's really not that
many routes we only have about four,
but like I said you can extend this
app to be whatever you want and
go crazy with it,
it's fine what you want to do with it.
But these four routes
are definitely gonna challenge us,
they all do some different things
that have different constraints.
So for us we're gonna need this slash
register route which is sign up or
any sign in which is exactly what it
sounds like it's where we go sign in.
We need the slash home route that's gonna
be like when I showed you the project,
the dashboard, that's the home for
the dashboard,
and then we're gonna need
slash project slash ID.
So if I click on a project I
should be able to go there and
see all the tasks for that one project.
And that's what we're gonna
cover in this course.
Now we have an issue though.
We have four routes and they have two
completely different layouts, right?
If we go back and
look at the app, let me show you.
So if we look at this
layout right here for
instance like the auth form,
this register one, right?
We have this layout here.
But if we go to home, we have this layout.
So I mean there are some simulators as far
as this little glass thing and whatnot.
But the layout as far as this navigation
bar and stuff, it's completely different.
So the slash home and the one first last
project here, they have the same but
the ones for the register and sign in
have a completely different layout.
And if you remember how next
JS app directory works,
we can put a layout on the route.
So if we go into the app
we can put a layout here,
in fact there probably already is
one cuz we scaffolded this out.
So if we put something in here, it's
gonna be on all four of those routes and
we don't want that.
So we have to figure out how do we
maybe opt in to certain layouts or
opt out of certain layouts.
How do we how do we figure that out?
Well, this is where
route grouping comes in.
So in intro, the next JSP 2, I talked
a little bit about route grouping.
This is where it actually
is super beneficial.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to
basically group those routes as pairs so
they can share their own layout and
not be affected by the other routes.
And it not at segments to our URL, right?
We want our URLs to look like this.
We want them to be clean.
Because we could solve
this just by saying, well,
how about we put sign in and
register underneath slash off?
And how about we put home and
project underneath slash dashboard?
Okay, that might solve the problem but
I don't wanna pollute our URL just
because we can't separate layouts.
I want the URL to be like this.
But the complete different layout so
we've got the group the routes.
So what that means is we're gonna create
a folder for auth with parentheses because
when we tell next yes put parentheses
around a folder we're saying, hey,
do not add this segment to the route, I'm
only grouping everything underneath it so
they can share something
common like a layout.
So we're gonna put the register and
the sign in inside the auth group, and
they have their own layout.
And then we're gonna put the home in
the project inside the dashboard group,
and they have their own layout.
Does that make sense?
So this is the use case where you can
have more than one route layout and
app directory.
But you have to have at least one.
So let's do that.
So I'm actually just gonna get
rid of pretty much all of this.
I'll keep the head, the head one,
but everything else is gonna go.
Okay, so inside of here, typically we
would put a layout on the route, but
we're not cuz we're gonna have
two routes in their own groups.
So I'm gonna make one
group here called auth.
It should be a folder, not a file.
With parentheses around it.
So we got auth and we're gonna make
another folder called dashboard.
So this is new to next JS 13.
And then inside of auth,
we're gonna make a layout.
That's where the layout goes for the auth.
It's gonna be its own root layout there.
And same thing goes for dashboard.
It's also gonna have a layout.
And then for auth it's gonna have
another folder for register.
And another sibling folder to
that it's gonna be sign in.
And because we're an app directory,
you have to have a page if
you actually want a page.
Unlike the pages directory where you
just give it whatever name you want and
it'll make a route for you.
We explicitly have to use the name page.
So I go into the folder that
I want to put a page there.
So I put a page and register or
put a page and sign in.
And then in the dashboard,
I'm gonna make a new folder for home,
I'm gonna put a page in
there Also in dashboard,
I'm gonna make a new
folder called project.
And instead of putting a page in project,
cuz I don't want you to be able to go
to slash project and see something,
I want you to go to project slash
projectid, I'm gonna make a new folder
in here with the square brackets of
id cuz it's a dynamic parameter.
And then inside of that
folder I'm gonna put a page.
So I have them all open here.
So all the register with a page,
all the sign in with a page,
and then dashboard home with a page,
dashboard project
id with a page, and
then layouts in both a dashboard.
Any questions on why we
organize it that way?
>> I may have missed it.
But is there a reason for
the prints around auth and dashboard?
>> Great question.
The question was, is there a reason for
the parentheses around dashboard and auth?
Yes, there is.
Next JS 13,
when it sees these parentheses is gonna
do something called route grouping.
What this means is it's
gonna allow us to group for
instance the slash register and
the slash sign in together so
they share this common layout, but
it's not gonna add off to the URL.
It's not gonna add it as a segment.
So if there were no provisions around
this, in order to see the register page
it would be your website slash off slash
register and then you would see it.
With these purlins it would just
be your website slash register,
it will ignore the auth.
So it's just a way for you to get the same
benefit of routes being grouped together
without actually adding segments to
the URL Cool, any other questions?
>> Folder or
files with dynamic parameters?
>> Folders have dynamic parameters.
You can't put dynamic parameters.
You can't make a file that's a page
that's not called page anymore.
So you used to be able to use dynamic
parameters because you can make
a file whatever you want it in
previous versions the next but
in this version the next off
pages have to be called page.
So anything that's not page or a special
thing like layout is probably a folder.
It just looks weird in VS code cuz
it the ID folder's the only folder
inside a project.
So it just put them on
the same line like that.
But that's a folder.
This is a folder in a folder.
>> How does it know which route is
the index route now after deleting
the page.tsx?
>> I was wondering if someone's gonna ask
that cuz it's gonna go to the page and
like what you think is
gonna happen if I go here?
So to answer that question,
we don't have an index route.
There isn't one.
And that's intentional because
this app is meant to be an app
behind a marketing website
which would be the index route.
This is assuming you got past that and
here's the app.
If you wanna go make a marketing
website for you index route and
add it here, do it.
But this is an app behind that.
So I didn't do it, but
I forgot I didn't do it.
[LAUGH] So I was like,
wait, this thing's broke.
But no, that's intentional.
So there is no index route here and
that's totally fine.
But that's up to you how
you wanna handle that.
I think the way I would handle it though
if I were to do it is I would probably
make another, You know what?
Yeah, I think-
>> You're saying you make Index dot tsx.
>> So
you can't do that anymore unfortunately.
You can't make an index dot tsx anymore
in the app directory it has to be
called page.
So I mean the short answer
is you just put page here,
you just say page dot tsx, right.
Boom, there it is.
Well let me spell it right.
That's the short answer.
The problem is,
The way that the route segments are right
now you might have to start mounting them
at different paths cuz what is this?
Is this the index page to your app?
Is this the index page
to a marketing site?
And then where are those
other pages gonna go?
So it's more about organizing them and not
so much about whether or not you have it.
So it's just a thought exercise on
how you wanna organize them and
what that URL structure looks like.
So probably wanna sit down ahead of
time and like map out your URLs and
how you want them to be.
But yeah, if you just wanna index route,
you just put a page tx at the root
of the app, and you'll get that.
But you'll also have to now add
a index route layout which we were
trying to avoid cuz we don't
want these to share layout.
So that's another reason why I don't have
an index route cuz I don't want them
sharing a layout I want them
to have their own layout and
only way to do that is
to have route grouping.
>> So if we just have the page at that,
the base of the app directory,
we need to have a layout?
>> I believe so.
We can test that theory.
Let's see.
So if I say page, export,
default, function, page.
Why does it do that?
My autocomplete is so strong.
It's like you want that icon?
>> [LAUGH]
>> No I don't, I just wanna do div.
just give me a div.
My God, Jesus.
Okay, so let's see.
Yeah, you can see right there it literally
breaks doesn't have a root layout you have
to cuz it needs to be rendered into an
HTML document and you didn't give it one.
So that's why I don't have that there.
Okay, any other questions?
>> If we were to have that there,
is there a way to have that layout
satisfied without the layout
affecting the sub directories?
So I saw in the RFC that they are working
on the ability to where you can do
something like this.
How does it work?
You can export something.
My keyboard works, there we go.
I don't know what it is exactly
cuz I haven't seen the API for it.
But they're working on the ability for
you to export some type of hints here.
It'll have some special name or
something, and
you can tell next.js I wanna opt out of
this layout, or I wanna use this layout.
I think they're trying to figure that out,
but right now no, there isn't a way.
But they're aware of it and
they're trying to figure it out.
So the way that I get around it is this.
Yes.
>> I can see middleware redirecting to
the slash sign in when the route is slash.
Am I right?
>> You can 100% use middleware to
redirect to anywhere based off of that,
you can also just do or
a hard coded redirect as well.
You don't even need middleware to
calculate it if you don't want to,
you can as hard code that if
that's what you wanna do.
If you want this app to have an index,
you can have it go there, but
you're still just gonna
run into the same problem.
Soon as that index tries to load
up it might throw an error.
But if you did it on middleware which was
at the edge it would avoid that entirely.
So it really just depends on
where you did the redirect.
On the edge yeah that would
have that would avoid it.
So you could do it there
if that's what you prefer.